what's going on YouTube gave it right
here represent PGA Tour driven the
movement towards improvement today's
video we are over here at Hacienda
Country Club in LA I mean look at the
weather out here ok blue skies green
grass with my buddy Blair in today's
video we're gonna do on how it gets
sponsored how to become a pro and I also
asked you guys if you had any questions
for play on Facebook so what a real off
little Q&A look at me and player playing
little charity event me this course
looks awesome you guys I mean in the
rolling hills of LA Los Angeles and
fairways are tight greens are rolling
good so I am excited let's go ok well
let's talk first on how do you become a
pro or anybody how does one become a
professional golfer pretty easy actually
so well I always like official unless
you actually win money but I do
understand like if you sign up for a
tournament and you've been an amateur or
whatever you sign up and they have
little bucks as amateur or pro and you
click it and as a pro and amer then
technically you're a pro but I think you
can actually there's some kind of like
gray area where if you don't win money
and actually accept the monetary prize
and you're technically not a
professional so I did that you know
quick little box and I played my first
girl term actually won it so I think
from that point on I was officially a
pro so it's pretty easy though really
all you do is check a box yeah check a
box and then I and win some money do you
have to have a certain handicap maybe no
you don't really there's a lot of guys a
lot of pros out there who should not be
pro but another thing if you guys look
on any professional golf tour you'll see
pro shooting 90s oh yeah every week
absolutely I play with some pro shot I
play with me shot like 88 yeah actually
we played you're caddying for me that
day remember it was it was it was
actually built glasses on in Baroda it
was me and Garrett's app and then that
kid was walking and he's not like 80
something we
beaten by like 20 shots yeah as bad they
asked so as you can see being a pro
doesn't really mean much to some regards
nogi a pro and shoot 90 you can be a pro
and be a donator you can be a pro that
wins money or at least doesn't lose
money
okay how many golf companies have you
been sponsored by Blair to which
companies Wilson staff and Adams okay
and how did you get sponsored by Wilson
funny story so our old Pro Paul which
you might have seen in our old videos he
got his Titleist bag stolen from the
driving range one day and Todd wouldn't
give him any more golf clubs or whatnot
for whatever reason and so he end up
calling Wilson staff and also in high
school I think I was 17 or 18 but I was
number one in San Diego at the time and
the rep from Wilson actually heard of me
and he's like oh yeah we'll have him
come on out with us you know for the fun
so we're not played woods Valley and
despite my horrible temper and my bad
swing I shot 29 on the front and end up
shooting 63 that day shot 9-under
and you know and after that the the rep
was all like crime took me over to
siding goes I would you know how would
you like to get some play our stuff well
we'll take care of you if you go to
college through college and if you turn
pro we'll take care of you what'd he say
and I said absolutely because I was
playing like mix-and-match clubs back
then so that's how I got sponsored by
Wilson then after a couple years of that
and you know I think I was maybe 21 inch
or so I had a manager and at the time
and my manager went to this bar and
Encinitas and just so happened he met
Brad I can't on the phone say the names
he does he met the tour rep for Adams
golf and he was talking me up like a big
game yeah I got this guy on managing
he's really good or whatever and Brad's
like oh you know let's uh maybe I'll go
take a look at him or something and so
then one day we went to the driving
range and I was hitting balls and still
no like I'm gonna give you free stuff
right away kind of deal and I was like
alright well at school at least we met I
mean I got my foot in the door and then
the next week I go out and I shot 61 out
at a golf course and broke the course
record and first thing my manager did
was call Brad and say hey my guy just
shot you know 61 course record it's like
another one of those course records
around town or whatnot
and then Brad's like alright well the
school take a look at this guy and let's
actually play golf and see how he
performs and we went out and played
Rancho Santa Fe Country Club which is a
course similar to this really tough high
and you know I think the course record
out there 65 or 64 and Phil Mickelson
has it and I went out and just played
flawless I take no bogeys I shot 66 and
almost tied the course record I missed a
putt in the last folder to tie it and
then Brad's like woah I wanted to play
our stuff what do you say and from that
point on I said sure you know you just
never pass up free stuff like that and
there you go and that's how I got
sponsored by Adams so it's really about
good timing and playing good golf at the
right yeah yeah and performing in
tournaments obviously like when I was
with Wilson I was number one in high
school for San Diego in and so he kind
of already heard about me before that so
it kind of kind of worked out and it's
just it's about playing well and being
really lucky isn't who you meet like I
mean if my old manager never met Brad in
a bar then I never would have met him
and then Brad one that got me in with
Fuji Qura and same with Taylor Made and
all the TaylorMade guys too so so it's
the thing I mean basically either play
really good golf in a lot of tournaments
and companies come to you and quite
frankly if you're asking for sponsorship
you're you're not good enough to get it
yeah you're not gonna come you know
these companies
everyone's a mini-tour player and quite
honestly it's one of my pet peeves to
see people like always asking for
sponsorship for example there's this
company called dial D clothing on
Instagram I've been following their new
clothing line and you see kids like oh
send me your stuff and I'll wrap it down
here and San Diego or Florida they don't
care about and they play like on little
quad like web.com qualifiers and
mini-tour stuff I'm like did no one's
gonna see their clothes on there yeah I
can be beneficial especially if they're
not winning I mean you gotta win hey if
you if you're winning mini tour events
at least a consistent rate or some you
know performing at top three top five
that means there's people who know about
you and people who see the stuff that
you're wearing to see the club's you're
playing and
and a lot of companies wanna be a part
of that because they think you have
potential and so if they don't think you
have potential and you're asking and
like they'll might be you know they'll
look they'll might look into you and be
like oh that's best for 74 and I'm not
gonna get any money in that guy you know
so it's just uh you know you have to get
lucky you can't be asking for it you
just have to meet the right guy and you
have to be a plane well at the same time
you know take advantage of your
opportunities when you do get them the
big picture here is let your game do the
talkin and the companies will come you
worry about golf getting better and
playing really good and being sponsors
being getting sponsor will be easy but
honest you know getting sponsored by the
company is a lot easier than getting
actually a dude to sponsor you and give
you cash that's completely different
animal so you're saying like what do you
mean like just club sponsorship plus
watch it's not much because for for
clubs for golf clubs or whatnot they own
there's no skin off their back to give
you clubs I mean they're not going to
give it to you just because but you know
what what atoms are tailor-made or
anybody gives me or whatnot it's nothing
that they're not losing money out of
this what a sponsor guy gives you he's
losing money if you don't get anything
if you don't return it so and so that's
a blur time I bet you time out his
sponsorships were like clubs clothing
balls and gloves yeah they're not
actually giving them five ten twenty
great grand
yeah others gave me some our buddy Tyler
wore ski from Carlsbad I believe he got
30 G's - he got 44 thin q-school and I
think my buddy Chun who was playing on
Japan tour God no no no 25 I think if
you get the web you get you know if
you're really good at whether he's 50
then PGA Tour maybe could be anywhere
between 75 to 150 yeah yeah but I really
hear the moving of web comm getting 30
grand on web coms not good especially
when you're flying - flying at bat or
you better be making money man pain pain
for hotels and caddies so oh well thanks
for sharing some insight Blair no
problem
you
okay Blair and do a little Q&A from
Facebook so first question is what's the
average score at the tournaments he
plays in and what age group is he
playing if any like from back in the day
right now probably right now I mean we
play against everybody from 50-year olds
to teenagers I guess but I think right
now in the Golden State Tour you know I
played I've only played in nine
turnarounds this year so probably like
six or seven turns seven eight
tournaments and I've got like five or
six of them all my rounds in the 60s but
I also have a couple high ones I got to
get rid of my inconsistency so I think
right now I'm averaging like 70.8 or
like you know like two under something
like that one and a half two hundred how
many days a week in hours do you
practice I wish I can do a lot more but
I do work and so I'd say I do play more
more often than I practice I think so uh
I mean how many times a week do you play
oh like five four or five times okay I
try to take one day off every week Oh
what are your future goals what level do
you think you can get to and how are you
going to achieve that oh gosh I thought
that's a loaded question right there
yeah yeah um we talked about where time
on the car oh yeah we could get to
personally I mean you wanted obviously
think that you can be the best ever I
mean you want like Patrick Reed only top
five I won't say that to nobody but do I
think I can yeah I think I can be on the
PGA Tour I think I can win tournaments
and I think you know I think I can win
majors but that's my driving goal
obviously whether I get there or not as
a whole different story but I think I
have the talent and you know
just the kind of the work ethic if I
have the opportunity to have the work
ethic and to make my talent grow so like
you said he says how would you do that
how what would you need or what you
don't have in order to give yourself
that upper tool right now I just need
resources I don't got resources and you
know and it gets frustrating big time a
lot because you know you're working so
hard and you're not get you're not
getting anything out of the game because
not the games not give anything back to
you and you just got to be patient and
just optimistic I mean I and you gotta
realize that you know you might not make
it I mean I I know for sure that I think
about all the time like well I might not
make it but I won't MIT I won't let it
happen on happen because of my work out
there for my drive it'll happen from
outside influences I have no control
over so I only have control over my
swing my golf game and my mental
attitude and overall perception on
everything so what you have to
understand hit where first player is
that the opportunity to get on the PGA
Tour has nothing to do with talent or
potential or work ethic Blair could have
a lot more talent and potential to be
better than a lot of the pros out there
that are playing that just have a lot
more money to consistent play in
tournaments oh it's nothing to do with
talent has to do with the resources
mainly yeah yeah absolutely I think I
have the talent to be on PGA Tour and I
think I have the talent to be one of the
better players out there but I mean
those guys as opposed to shoot 90 in
every week they actually have the money
to play oh yeah every yeah Blair's out
there actually posting some pretty good
scores and can't afford it cuz he's got
to pay you know car and ran a phone and
whatever yeah how many days a week do
you work Blair for four yeah I try to
get some morning shifts like I play in
the afternoon so like half those in the
morning and then two of those like
clothes but I'll either player in the
morning working putting in the morning
before work
short-game you know stuff like that
how many times can you take the p80 test
and we don't pass the first time how
much of the Pap test cost let's just
talk about gosh I have no clue let's
just talk about how pathetic the p80 is
it's pretty pretty good thanks
they play it probably the easiest course
in San Diego and they you have to shoot
think they play two rounds and I think
they have to shoot 77 or 78 to get
through and they play like from the
white yeah they put the pin in the
middle middle every green on the easiest
course yeah so and uh it's really not
that expensive I think it's only like
500 bucks but you know they do actually
all the classes and you know get your
class a I think it cost it takes three
years in the cost maybe four grand I
think yep to be honest me and Blair
actually don't know too much about that
we've never had any desire other than we
do know regards like player who shoots
under par get Sicily and somebody like
me who's striving to do that the
stability and the Pap test is is pretty
below standard yeah it's not too
difficult
all right Blair how do you take range
work on the course I try to get as big
of a feel as I can
especially before rounds like I find it
really difficult to go and play a golf
course or just play a turn anything
without a proper warm-up session because
if you can't get a good feel and like
something to commit to the whole entire
course around I just don't think you can
really play at least for me so when I
the way I do it you know I try to get a
feel to develop on the range that you
know I'm hitting it well or whatnot or
just something to make it so just hit a
little bit better and then take that on
the course and just kind of just mainly
focus on that try to narrow your focus
on your golf swing and you want more
focus on your target than your golf
swing so how long did it take you to
become a stretch handicap you know it's
kind of a weird jump that I had when I
was younger like I mean I know when I
was a I started like at ten I know when
I was 11 I shot my first round to 70s
about 75 and I thought that was the
greatest thing ever
and then you know I'll just shoot in low
80s from that point on and then I start
shooting the 70s probably right when I
turned 12 and then this out of nowhere I
shot like a 65 or something crazy like a
Eagle Crest like I burn my clothes yeah
I birdie like five or six of my last
holes in a row or something and and I
was like in the rain and I was like holy
crap I can't we just did that you know
and then from that point on like I'd
still shoot mid 70s and then I got to
about 13 I started consistently shooting
around even then right when I got to 15
is when I really started just shooting
under par a lot and uh and that's it and
you know I just keep growing and you get
lower and lower like from the time I was
about 16 so literally just about last
year I'd shoot mid-60s all the time and
not pepper in some really low ones like
at 61 62 or 63 really good people and I
understand is like you're really good
junior golfer like blair west usually
the same course same scores like six or
seven years and you have a lot more
room for like going backwards and
forward oh yeah no 67-66 is when you're
saying seventeen completely forgot what
it's like to shoot twelve under on the
round of golf I mean I mean now after
this swing changer what not to be I you
know I did it differently back then
though I had a ego oriented mindset and
where it was the best or nothing and I
get mad if I did if I shot 69 I've been
shot 65 and you know toss clubs be
bitter and uh but I was the right kind
of mindset to want you to keep birdie
and keep birdie and keep birding and now
I'm not into that as much you know I'm
more into like how I commit to every
shot and and how I feel confident or you
know over every shot where his back then
all I wanna do is birdie and birdie and
birdie and birdie and I would shoot low
I'd shoot nine 10 under par rounds but I
think I went about it the wrong way and
now I'm trying to get even back to that
point I think my game I'm a better
player than I ever was but I'm not
shooting the scores that I was last year
so it's kind of crazy how that works to
know I'm not the killer see right here
I'm about to kill this B I'm about to
hit it with the tee call me hook call me
Smee oh my gosh I got to go to the
bathroom I take a pee call me Cheech
call me Chong hit the beer hit the bong
look at my wiener it's a huge ass dog
welcome home to Kanye
how much was a hit after that last year
yeah as you can see me and Blair got
here we left what time did we leave
Escondido oh I picked up at 5:30 we
gotta be like 7:30 yeah stop but as you
can see me and Blair the only ones out
here it's pretty sweet I mean me and
Blair love this we could be out here all
day we worked on the putting green by
ourselves on the range and we'd stay out
here all day
I love that my course looks great I mean
we're we're on cloud nine right now
well if we're gonna ask you what your
lowest tournament scores we asked you at
your highest is one oh yeah that's
perfect okay so which would lowest
tournament score what's your highest
earnings were 11 under sixty one is my
lowest term is score it was last year at
the Farmers Insurance Open Creek wall
which I did it on the Monday but they
don't the prequel and then my highest
term is score is actually I just shot it
actually a month ago I shot 79 and
before that it was 76 so he said when I
was no fun but I came back I shot in the
60s next day like it was kind of one of
those weird rounds where I hit like
three balls OB and I was a wrap on that
in quite honestly if I look at a player
me it's a lot harder shoot 61 than 79
obviously but I man I see a lot more
potential someone who actually has the
ability to go really low like that yeah
that's kind of crucial oh me I didn't
have that ability to do it in
tournaments for at my whole life I think
my lowest tournament round before that
was like 65 and then I was playing
really good going into that tournament
like I was really confident I shot I
shot almost shot 59 out of Stoneridge I
live down the last hole for 59 I still
have nightmares about that but that was
a week before the 61 like I had this
crazy stretch I was just shooting low
every time like I went like 63 63 64 and
then 60 and then I went to the
tournament like going in with those
scores and so I just kind of felt like I
could do it but it's harder to translate
you're playing with your buddies and
shooting 9 10 under apart to going out
to a tournament and shooting that scores
kinda it was crazy how it happened like
it was the same kind of mindset where
all I thought I was buried was no
negative fossils just go go go go and
when you got to a certain points really
easy when you get to like eight so be
like okay I'm good where I'm at let's
kind of like get complacent and then you
either lose a stroke and you blow up or
you just kind of pour out and you don't
ever go lower like I was on the last
hole and I was 10 under par and I was
like 240 into this par 5 and I was in my
caddie and you know I knew I was I was
going to get
through to the Monday qualifier and my
calves like I think you should lay up
and I I kind of like looked at it was
like no because I in a normal round I
wouldn't lay up so I hit a 3-wood and it
was like a uphill shot and hit Oh cut in
there at about 20 20 feet or so to
putter for my 61 course record and then
you know it's you have got that kind of
mindset where once you can't get
complacent you won't just always keep
birding it's it's a lot of fun when you
do it too it's really fun what's the
best course you've played its course
called called old Kinderhook in Missouri
it's that Lake of the Ozarks Missouri
and it was just all zoysia grass and the
greens were bent and it was just so pure
and that was that's my room my the best
course I ever play oh he can hear
driving here I don't know what I'm going
to okay
oh that's so butters yeah you can a
dream for a better ball flight get swing
gamers thanks